Limitations description (#580)
rl-institut/multi-vector-simulator: docs/Model_Assumptions.rst

.. list-table:: Limitations
   :widths: 25 25 25
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Type
     - Limitation
     - Link
   * - Inherited
     - Disregard of some real life constraint
     - :ref:`disregard`
   * - Inherited
     - Simplified asset model
     - 
   * - Inherited
     - No degradation
     - 
   * - Inherited
     - Perfect foresight
     - 
   * - Can be addressed
     - Extension of KPIs
     - 
   * - Can be addressed
     - Random excess energy distribution
     - 
   * - Can be addressed
     - Renewable energy share defintion
     - 
   * - Can be addressed
     - Energy carrier rating
     -      
   * - Can be addressed
     - Energy shortage or grid interruption
     - 
   * - Can be addressed
     - Generic cost definitions
     -  
   * - Can be addressed
     - Unlinked one technical unit transformers
     -      

.. _disregard:
Disregard of some real life constraint
######################################
:Limitation: Some real life constraint are not taken into consideration in the MVS.
:Reason: The MVS is based oemof-solph python library and uses its generic components to set up an energy system, which allow unidirectional flows only. 

> :Implications: This means that the MVS might result in unfeasible dispatch of assets. For instance, the battery might be charged by the rectifier and discharged by the inverter at the same time step t. Another case that could occur is feeding the grid and consuming from it at the same time t. If those constraints were to be implemented, the optimization problem would become a non-linear one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:Implications: This limitation means that the MVS might result in unfeasible dispatch of assets. For instance, the a bus might supplied by a rectifier and itself supply an inverter at the same time step t, which can logically not be if these assets are part of one physical bi-directional inverter. Another case that could occur is feeding the grid and consuming from it at the same time t.
```

Actually, a battery is a special case: Here we actually CAN do something to prevent simultaneous charge and discharge: We can define a minimal `dispatch_cost` for charge or discharge, and thus both should not take place in parallel (except if the flow must go though the battery to reach another bus). 

You can also mention this here, if it fits above narrative.

Simplified asset model
######################

> :Limitation: The MVS simplifies the modelling of some assets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:Limitation: 

The MVS simplifies the component model of some assets.

* Generators have an efficiency that is not load-dependent
* Storage have a charging efficiency that is not SOC-dependent
```
Other examples? Inverters?

> :Reason: The MVS is based oemof-solph python library and uses its generic components to set up an energy system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:Reason: The MVS is based oemof-solph python library and uses its generic components to set up an energy system. Transformers and storages can not have variable efficiencies.
```

> :Implications: Simplifying the implementation of some component specifications can be beneficial for the ease of the model, however, it contributes to the lack of realism and might result in impractical values. For instance, generators and transformers are modelled without their efficiency curve, turbines without ramp rates, and thermal storage is currently implemented like battery storage.

Reviewer: > For instance, generators and transformers are modelled without their efficiency curve, turbines without ramp rates, and thermal storage is currently implemented like battery storage

This is for me something that belongs to `:limitation:`

> :Implications: Simplifying the implementation of some component specifications can be beneficial for the ease of the model, however, it contributes to the lack of realism and might result in impractical values. For instance, generators and transformers are modelled without their efficiency curve, turbines without ramp rates, and thermal storage is currently implemented like battery storage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:Implications: Simplifying the implementation of some component specifications can be beneficial for the ease of the model, however, it contributes to the lack of realism and might result in impractical values. The MVS accepts the decreased level of detail in return for a quick evaluation of it`s scenarios, that are in itself only used for a pre-feasibility analysis. 
```

No degradation
##############
:Limitation: The MVS does not degrade the generation of a production asset over the lifetime of the project.

> :Reason: The MVS is based oemof-solph python library and uses its generic components to set up an energy system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:Reason: The simulation of the MVS is only based on a single reference year, and it is not possible to take into account multi-year degradation of asset efficiency. 
```

> :Implications: This results in an overestimation of the energy generated by the asset, which implies that the calculation of some other results might be unrealistic (e.g., overestimation of feed-in energy).

Reviewer: How can the user circumvent this? You shared an idea on monday...

"unrealistic" is a tough call, it is better to describe the effect.

Perfect foresight
#################
:Limitation: The optimal solution of the energy system is based on perfect foresight.

> :Reason: As oemof-solph, as well as the MVS, know the generation and demand profiles for the whole simulation time and solve the optimization problem based on a linear equation system, the solver knows their dispatch for certain, whereas in reality the generation and demand could only be forecasted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:Reason: As the MVS and thus oemof-solph, which is handling the energy system model, know the generation and demand profiles for the whole simulation time and solve the optimization problem based on a linear equation system, the solver knows their dispatch for certain, whereas in reality the generation and demand could only be forecasted.
```

:Implications: The perfect foresight can lead to suspicious dispatch of assets, for example charging of a battery right before a (in real-life) random blackout occurs. The systems optimized with the MVS therefore, represent their optimal potential, which in reality could not be reached. The MVS has thus a tendency to underestimate the needed battery capacity or the minimal state of charge for backup purposes, and also designs the PV system and backup power according to perfect forecasts. In reality, operational margins would need to be added.

Extension of KPIs
#################

> :Limitation: Some important KPIs, usually required by developers, are currently not implemented in the MVS.

Reviewer: This really needs a comment which ones are missing specifically

:Reason: The MVS tool is a work in progress and this can still be addressed in the future.
:Implications: The absence of such indicators might affect decision-making.

Random excess energy distribution
#################################
:Limitation: There is random excess distribution between the feed-in sink and the excess sink when no feed-in-tariff is assumed in the system.

> :Reason: Since there is no feed-in-tariff to benefit from, the MVS randomly distributes the excess energy between the feed-in and excess sinks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:Reason: Since there is no feed-in-tariff to benefit from, the MVS randomly distributes the excess energy between the feed-in and excess sinks. As such, the distribution of excess energy changes when running several simulations for the same input files. 
```

> :Implications: This distribution of excess energy changes when running several simulations for the same input files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:Implications: 

On the first glance, the distribution of excess energy onto both feed-in sind and excess sink may seem off to the end-user. Other than these inconviniences, there are no real implications that affect the capacity and dispatch optimization. 

When a degree of self-supply and self-consumption is defined, the limitation might tarnish these results.
```

Renewable energy share defintion
################################

> :Limitation: The current renewable energy share depends on the share of renewable energy production assets directly feeding the load.

Reviewer: This does not describe the issue for me. You can throw in words like "energy carrier", "energy vector", the actual equation itself.

> :Reason: The MVS tool is a work in progress and this can still be addressed in the future.

Reviewer: You can throw in "sector-coupling" and "pv generation"

Author: I don't understand this. Do you mean to give an example of a sector coupled system in which PV is only used to calculate the renewable energy share of electricity?

> :Implications: This might result in different values when comparing them to other models.

Reviewer: You can mention the solution that we propose: Also use energy carrier weighting vor RES.

Energy carrier rating
#####################

> :Limitation: The MVS assumes a usable potential/energy content rating for every energy carrier.

Reviewer: Where is the problem with that?

> :Reason: This is an approach that the MVS currently uses.

Reviewer: But why?

Reviewer: Are you critizizing the general approach or the issue that we are not sure about the conversion factor for heat?

Author: I am actually not sure why you chose this method of going back to electricity to calculate the share and not base it on every sector alone

:Implications: By weighing the energy carriers according to their energy content (Gasoline Gallon Equivalent (GGE)), the MVS might result in values that can't be directly assessed. Those ratings affect the calaculation of the levelized cost of the energy carriers, but also the minimum renewable energy share constraint.

Energy shortage or grid interruption
####################################
:Limitation: The MVS assumes no shortage or grid interruption in the system.
:Reason: 

> :Implications: Electricity shortages due to power cuts might happen in real life. The MVS currently omits this scenario which might implicate unreasonable results. If a system is self-sufficient but relies on grid-connected PV systems, the latter stop feeding the load if any power cuts occur and the battery storage systems might not be enough to serve the load (energy shortage).

Reviewer: As we assume that the grid is always available, this is true... but not something that we have to worry about. You can keep this in the limitations (maybe I will move it to the assumptions). However, I disagree that it `implicates unreasonable results` - this degrades the MVS, eventhough the MVS does not even aim to cover those scenarios...

Author: alright, I removed the sentence and added a reason. maybe it's better to remove it from the limitations then..

Generic cost definitions
########################
:Limitation: The MVS includes development costs, specific costs, O&M costs and disptach costs.
:Reason: The MVS assumes those costs only for simplification.

> :Implications: This could lead to a rough estimation of the entire project costs.

Reviewer: I do not understand how you would propose costs should be included otherwise. How is this generic? What is missing? Why is it a rough estimation?

Author: are we assuming that the costs of cables or breakers for instance are included in the specific costs?

Reviewer: Well... if the end-user includes it in the specific costs, yes. The degree to which the economic representation is close to reality strongly depends on how much the end-user tries to get close to the actual real-life inputs...

I see that this is something to look out for, but for now I do not see how else you would like to integrate it, ie. I do not see the limitation.

Author: okay then I will delete it

Unlinked one technical unit transformers

> ########################################

Reviewer: "unlinked one"?

> :Limitation: Some components should be modelled as separate transformers in the MVS while in real life they are one technical unit.

Reviewer: That in itself is not a limitation yet. What does this do to the model that is wrong?

:Reason: The MVS uses oemof-solph's generic components listed here below:

    - Sink (one input, no output)
    - Source (one output, no input)
    - Linear Transformer (one input, n outputs)

>     - Storage (one input, one output)

Reviewer: I do not understand this reasoning.

Author: this was just used to show that for instance transformers are only allowed to have one input and so a heat pump should be modelled as two separate transformers and so on

Reviewer: Actually two inputs are possible, but would result in a wrong relation (n * in1 + m * in2 = out).

> :Implications: Since one input is only allowed, such technical units are modelled as two separate transformers that are currently unlinked in the MVS (e.g., hybrid inverter, heat pump, distribution transformer, etc.). This means that the costs (and sometimes capacities) of those transformers are either replicated or divided between them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:Implications: 

Since one input is only allowed, such technical units are modelled as two separate transformers that are currently unlinked in the MVS (e.g., hybrid inverter, heat pump, distribution transformer, etc.). This raises a difficulty to define costs in the input data. It also results in two optimized capacities for one logical unit.

This limitation is to be addressed with a constraint which links both capacities of one logical unit, and therefore solves both the problem to attribute costs and the previously differing capacities.
```

Limitations
-----------

> Currently, the MVS tool is still a work in progress. Running simulations with different component combinations might reveal some of its limitations. Some of the latter can be inherited while others can still be addressed. A limitation can result in drawbacks, but can also be beneficial in other perspectives. The following table lists the MVS limitations based on their type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When running simulations with the MVS, there are certain pecurilarities to be aware of. The pecurilarities can be considered as limitations, of which some are merely assumptions and others drawbacks of the model. Some of those are inherited due to the nature of the MVS and its underlying modules, and some can still be addressed in the future during the MVS development process, which is still ongoing. The following table lists the MVS limitations based on their type.
```

> .. list-table:: Limitations

Reviewer: I think I liked the table as it was in your thesis better, with the two columns (inherited, to be adressed).

Author: I wanted to do it that way, but you also want a link. Unless I add the link next to the title of each limitation. Also in the presentation I listed 4 of each but in my report I had more. I am not sure if you want all of them but for now I did list all of them. If we keep all of them, the table will look unbalanced.

Reviewer: An unbalanced table is ok, I think. What is printed when you insert `:ref`? I always get a compiler error, and online the same happens:

![grafik](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/44204527/95068547-b81be980-0705-11eb-8a6b-3608e3cad3d6.png)

Author: @smartie2076 okay I will fix the table accordingly. For the references, they are also not working properly for me. I asked @mahendrark if I should keep -label or not. but both ways, the references are not printing..

Reviewer: Do you maybe need a space between the `:ref` and the label itself?

Author: also doesn't work

   :widths: 25 25 25
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Type
     - Limitation
     - Link
   * - Inherited
     - Disregard of some real life constraint

>      - :ref:`disregard`

Reviewer: The reference somehow does not work

   * - Inherited
     - Simplified asset model
     - 
   * - Inherited
     - No degradation
     - 
   * - Inherited
     - Perfect foresight
     - 
   * - Can be addressed
     - Extension of KPIs
     - 
   * - Can be addressed
     - Random excess energy distribution
     - 
   * - Can be addressed
     - Renewable energy share defintion
     - 
   * - Can be addressed
     - Energy carrier rating
     -      
   * - Can be addressed
     - Energy shortage or grid interruption
     - 
   * - Can be addressed
     - Generic cost definitions
     -  
   * - Can be addressed
     - Unlinked one technical unit transformers
     -      

.. _disregard:
Disregard of some real life constraint
######################################

Simplified asset model
######################

No degradation
##############

Perfect foresight
#################

> - Battery charge

Reviewer: Please also add the text that I wrote in the issue here
